welcome to Boulder Colorado home of ASD
incorporated a worldwide provider of
high performance spectroscopy solutions
for the measurement of natural resource
materials for researchers and industrial
markets particularly hyper spectral
imaging has depended on our ability to
make measurements in the field and find
out in detail howling how objects
reflect like we had instruments in the
laboratory and had been carrying samples
back to the lab and really there was a
strong need to measure the samples in
place out and out of the field outdoors
introducing the field spec 3 portable
spectral radiometer the truly field
portable spectral radiometer designed by
researchers for researchers to perform
solar spectral reflectance radiance and
irradiance measurements it takes a lot
of things to make an instrument work but
the requirements are the first thing and
they come from the scientists there's
three separate spectrometers in a single
full range instrument there's the
visible near infrared spectrometer which
extends from 350 nanometers to a
thousand nanometers and then there are
the two shortwave infrared spectrometers
which go from a thousand nanometers out
to 2500 nanometers it's not enough just
to say you're good instrument there's
actually quite a number of good
instrument manufacturers in the world it
has to be fit for use and that's what
distinguishes us it is made for the FATF
FC is made for the scientists in the
field we're very proud of the fact that
our instruments arrived with the
customer in a rugged case that gets
shipped across the country and you can
flip it open turn it on and run with it
right away in the field you can pack
what used to be a hundred and fifty
pound laboratory instrument into twelve
pounds and it does the same thing it's
the same quality of result
one of the things that we started out
with early on to be able to make things
smaller like that was to use fiber
optics to bring the light into the
spectrometer the spectral radiometer
instruments use a permanent fiber-optic
cable to maximize the signal throughput
in other words to maximize the amount of
light going into the instrument that has
been on every instrument through the
whole development over the last 20 years
it has allowed great flexibility it also
allows us to radiometrically calibrate
the instruments so the customer can
collect in either radians or irradiance
units of energy you can basically put an
instrument in a backpack run a fiber
optic around the front and really that's
the tip of the instrument is where all
the activity is the field of view of the
bare fiber-optic cable is 25 degrees
we also offer several view limiting for
optics that can be placed over the end
of the fiber-optic cable that allow you
to narrow the field of view down to as
little as one degree when we were
designing instruments early on we're
really designing them for ourselves and
so basically if it was something that we
liked there was a good probability that
others in the field would also find them
useful the new tcp/ip connection which
uses either an Ethernet cable or a Wi-Fi
connection provides a much more robust
and trouble-free connection for the
customer our instrument surrounded easy
to carry not a lot of sharp edges the
kind of thing you'd want to put in a
backpack and take into the field they're
rubberized so that you can you can
bounce them around a little bit people
bang this around run em in trucks and
everything we even have pictures of our
instruments on camels it is the lightest
and most portable instrument out there
in the scientific world of course you
first have to have technical excellence
and we do have that it's embodied in our
product but you have to have more than
that because everybody claims that we
have a very customer centric
organization we focus on the customer
and when the customer wants us to do
something we we jump we're very
entrepreneurial in that regard we've
managed based on the quality of the
instruments to keep everybody happy and
we always said we'd fix anything if
everybody wrong also what differentiates
us is our breadth of application
knowledge through the years we've
learned a lot we've got involved in so
many things from you know plant canopy
studies to teaching flies to
astronomical things to the ruins in
Pompeii all those have different
scientific needs and so the net result
is that we have a repository of
application knowledge that's unsurpassed
by any other company in the world the
field spec 3 portable spectral
radiometer is ideal for numerous remote
sensing and research applications for
more information about ASD Inc in the
field spec 3 please visit
you